So in the last lecture we've created this link and when we click on it,
it will take you to a URL like this one.
And now we need to handle this URL request and check if it has an action of "_themename_delete_post".
We need to delete this post.
So in order to handle URL request in WordPress of course we will use actions. So a suitable
action to handle this request is the "init" action. So let's add action.
And when the init action is called WordPress will be loaded and the user will be authenticated.
So this will be the perfect action to use in order to use WordPress functions and also have the user
authenticated in order to get its capabilities.
So let's create a function now to handle the requests.
So let's call it "_themename_handle_delete_post". And let's create this function
now.
So what we need to do is we need to check if these arguments exist.
We need to do something.
And of course you should know that these arguments are stored as an array in the super global variable $_GET,
right? So let's write an if condition. And "isset()" which is a PHP function that will check if a variable
is set. So "isset($_GET['action'])".
And we also need to make sure that if this action is set. We need to make sure that is our action.
So if this action is equal to and let's copy it from here
then we need to do something.
Delete the post.
So the logic for deleting the post will be inside this if condition.
So now lets get the post ID. And the post ID will be the post that we pass in the GET request so we
have "$_GET['post']". First we need to check that this value exists.
So let's call isset().
And if it's set we will set the $post_id to this value. And if not let's set it to "null". And then the next step
we need to verify that there is actually in the database
a post with this ID.
So to do that let's create a variable called $post. And it will call a function called get_post() which will get
a post from a post object, from the post ID.
So let's pass it the $post_id. But let's also make sure that this is an int not a string.
We can do that
by type casting using these ( ) and the int inside of it.
So if this post is empty then there is no post with this ID, otherwise we have a post. So let's check if
empty.
And the $post, we will break out of the function, "return".
And do nothing.
Otherwise we will continue.
So we now have the post ID and we confirm that the post exists.
We now need to delete it.
So to delete a post we'll call a function called wp_trash_post() and our post ID.
So after deleting the post let's redirect maybe to our home URL or something.
So WordPress has a function called wp_redirect() and wp_safe_redirect(). You should use safe_rdirect
if you want to redirect to a URL that is inside your website not an external URL. And use
wp_redirect
otherwise, if you want to go to an external URL.  So it takes a "location" and the "location" we need it to
be the home URL.
And of course after redirecting
we should always call "die" or "exit" in order to avoid any further code execution.
So let's try this. Let's try delete the post that we created.
So let's create a new post to delete it.
We don't want to delete these posts because we will use them in testing later.
Let's create a new dummy post.Let's call it "test".
And let's  now try and delete it. And as you can see it's deleted and we are redirected to home URL.
And to make sure let's go to the posts. And you'll find it in the trash.
So let's restore this.
I don't I think I delete this by mistake.
Let's just restore them in order to do some more testing.
So logon now as let's open a new incognito window in order to just be able to log in as another user.
So "localhost".
And we call the test and test
And let's now try and delete. As you can see it's deleted.
However the Subscriber user type that we are logged in with should not be able to delete this.
So this is a big security breach here.
So let's go and restore the post back.
So now it's time to use the current_user_can() in order to check for capabilities.
So let's go to our code. So after we make sure that the the post exists,
You also need to make sure that the current user can delete it.
So let's write another if condition. And then "current_user_can()".
And then let's try a capability called "delete_posts".
Let's actually try and see what will this output.
Let's try it in the where we output the link.
Let's "var_dump" this. What will be written from this?
And let's see our posts. So as you can see it returns "true". And that makes sense because this is an Admin,
so he can delete any post.
And here it returns "false" because this is a Subscriber and he can't.
He does not have the privilege to delete posts.  Now let's however change the user from Subscriber to
an Editor.
An update it.
And as you can see now it will return "true" because an Editor can delete posts but he can only delete
his posts. So this capability that we used here is a bit generic.
So yes the Editor can delete posts but he can't delete all posts. So there are some kinds of capabilities
called meta capabilities and they are usually singular. So "delete_post" or "delete_user" or something singular.
And they take a second argument and the second argument is the object that you want to check that they
can delete.
So in our case we can pass a certain post ID and the current_user_can() will check if they can eat this specific
post and the posts generally. So let's pass it get_the_ID().
And now here we are logged in as Admin so it will always return "true".
And here it also returns "true".
I don't know why. I think.
Sorry I think the
the Author is not allowed to delete other people's posts. So let's try that.
And yeah. It now returns "false" for the Author user type
if the post is not his post. But let's now create a post as an Author.
And let's view the homepage. And now as you can see it returns "true" for this post because it's his. And
"false" otherwise.
So I hope this is clear.
Let's now go back now to the code and use this
check. Let's copy this and we need to check that when we handle the form,
the URL. But now instead of get_the_ ID()
we need to pass the post ID that is in the URL.
So if he cannot we will return.
So let's try this now.
So let's try to delete a post as an Admin. And it should be deleted and let's restore it.
And let's now go to the Author user type.
Try to delete a post that is not his post which is "test". And it won't get deleted. Now let's try delete
his post and now it's deleted.
So of course you can display an error or something
if he has no permission to delete. But that's not the point of this feature we just needed to take a
look at the user capabilities.
What we can do real quick here is we can add this check all to here.
So if the current user can. And let's remove the
"!" this time.
And here we'll need the ID, get_the_ID(). So the user can display the link else just do nothing.
So now let's restore our post. And now we should have the Delete link in all of them because Admin. But here we
will only have the Delete link for the ones that we can actually delete.
We still have another problem though.
Imagine if someone knows how to delete a post on your website. So he knows that if you, let's copy this link,
he knows that if you visited this link you will delete this post.
So even if we check for capabilities someone might trick someone who is an Admin and there's an authenticated
user to click on this link.
And if you click on this link the post will be deleted.
So knowing the link is useless because you can't do anything with it except if you are a logged in user
will have the privilege to delete it.
But it's still can be an Admin user who can delete the post and someone might make you click on this link in
some malicious way.
Maybe send you this link in an email or something. So to tackle that WordPress provides what's called nonces.
And this is a technique that will allow you as a developer to make sure that the user who clicks Delete
really intended to click Delete and he was not just tricked into click in it.
So let's see how that works in the next lecture.